Bootstrap is the most popular HTML, CSS and JavaScript framework for developing a responsive and mobile friendly website.
It is absolutely free to download and use.
It is a front-end framework used for easier and faster web development.
It includes HTML and CSS based design templates for typography, forms, buttons, tables, navigation, modals, image carousels and many others.
It can also use JavaScript plug-ins.
It facilitates you to create responsive designs.

Why use Bootstrap
Following are the main advantage of Bootstrap:

It is very easy to use. Anybody having basic knowledge of HTML and CSS can use Bootstrap.
It facilitates users to develop a responsive website.
It is compatible on most of browsers like Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Safari and Opera etc.

In Bootstrap, container is used to set the content's margins dealing with the responsive behaviors of your layout. It contains the row elements and the row elements are the container of columns (known as grid system).
The container class is used to create boxed content.

There are two container classes in Bootstrap:
--container
--container-fluid
 
Bootstrap Helper Classes::::

Color Classes:::

Class		Description	
.text-primary	Apply blue color (#007bff) on text.	
.text-secondary	Apply grey color (#6c757d) on text.	
.text-success	Apply green color (#28a745) on text.	
.text-danger	Apply red color (#dc3545) on text.	
.text-warning	Apply yellow color (#ffc107) on text.	
.text-info		Apply teal color (#17a2b8) on text.	
.text-light		Apply very light grey color (#f8f9fa) on text.
.text-dark		Apply dark grey color (#343a40) on text.	
.text-body		Apply Bootstrap's default body text color (#212529) on text.	
.text-muted		Apply light grey color (#6c757d) on text.	
.text-white		Apply white color (#fff) on text.	
.text-black-50	Apply 50% transparent black color (rgba(0,0,0,.5)) on text.	
.text-white-50	Apply 50% transparent white color (rgba(255,255,255,.5)) on text.	

Background Color Classes:::


Class		Description	
.bg-primary	Apply blue background-color (#007bff) on an element.	
.bg-secondary	Apply grey background-color (#6c757d) on an element.	
.bg-success		Apply green background-color (#28a745) on an element.	
.bg-danger		Apply red background-color (#dc3545) on an element.	
.bg-warning	Apply yellow background-color (#ffc107) on an element.	
.bg-info		Apply teal background-color (#17a2b8) on an element.	
.bg-light		Apply very light grey background-color (#f8f9fa) on an element.	
.bg-dark		Apply dark grey background-color (#343a40) on an element.	
.bg-white		Apply white background-color (#fff) on an element.	
.bg-transparent	Apply transparent background-color (transparent) on an element.	


Text Alignment Classes:::

Class		Description	
.text-left		Align the text to the left.	
.text-center		Align the text to the center.	
.text-right		Align the text to the right.	
.text-justify	Justify the text content.	
.text-wrap		Wrap the overflowing text.	
.text-nowrap	Prevent text from wrapping.	
.text-truncate	Truncate the text with an ellipsis.	
.text-break		Break the long words to prevent overflow.	
.text-lowercase	Transform the text to lowercase.	
.text-uppercase	Transform the text to uppercase.	
.text-capitalize	Capitalize the first letter of each word.	
.font-weight-bold	Set the font-weight of an element to bold.	
.font-weight-bolder	Set the font-weight of an element to bolder (relative to the parent).	
.font-weight-normal	Set the font-weight of an element to normal.	
.font-weight-light	Set the light font-weight for an element.	
.font-weight-lighter	Set the lighter font-weight for an element (relative to the parent).	
.font-italic		Set the font-style of an element to italic.	
.text-monospace	Set the font-family of an element to monospace font (fixed-width)	
.text-reset		Reset the color of a text or link (inherits the color from its parent).	
.text-decoration-none	Remove the text decoration such as underline from a text.	

Border Classes:::


Class			Description	
.border			Add a border on all sides of an element.	
.border-top		Add a border on the top side of an element.	
.border-right		Add a border on the right side of an element.	
.border-bottom		Add a border on the bottom side of an element.	 
.border-left			Add a border on the left side of an element.	 
.border-0			Remove the border from all sides of an element.	 
.border-top-0		Remove the border from top side of an element.	 
.border-right-0		Remove the border from right side of an element.	 
.border-bottom-0		Remove the border from bottom side of an element.	 
.border-left-0		Remove the border from left side of an element.	 
.border-primary		Change the border-color of an element to blue (#007bff).	 
.border-secondary		Change the border-color of an element to grey (#6c757d).	 
.border-success		Change the border-color of an element to green (#28a745).	 
.border-danger		Change the border-color of an element to red (#dc3545).	 
.border-warning		Change the border-color of an element to yellow (#ffc107).	 
.border-info		Change the border-color of an element to teal (#17a2b8).	 
.border-light		Change the border-color of an element to very light grey (#f8f9fa).	 
.border-dark		Change the border-color of an element to dark grey (#343a40).	 
.border-white		Change the border-color of an element to white (#fff).	 
.rounded			Round all corners of an element.	 
.rounded-top		Round top-left and top-right corners of an element.	 
.rounded-right		Round top-right and bottom-right corners of an element.	 
.rounded-bottom		Round bottom-left and bottom-right corners of an element.	 
.rounded-left		Round top-left and bottom-left corners of an element.	 
.rounded-circle		Round an element into circle shape.	 
.rounded-pill		Round an element into pill shape.	 
.rounded-0			Remove round corners from an element.	 
.rounded-sm		Set smaller border-radius (0.2rem) for an element.	 
.rounded-lg		Set larger border-radius (0.2rem) for an element.	 

Spacing Classes:::

You can use the spacing utility classes to quickly adjust the margin and padding of an element.

The # character in the classes .mt-#, .pt-#, etc. represents the size of the margin or padding. The value of the size can be an integer from 0 to 5, or auto.

The size 0 completely removes the margin or padding by setting it to 0, whereas the value auto sets the margin to auto. The integer numbers from 1 to 5 sets the margin or padding incrementally (ranging from 0.25rem to 3rem). Try out the examples to see how it works:

Class	Description	
.mt-#	Set the top margin of an element.	 
.mb-#	Set the bottom margin of an element.	 
.ml-#	Set the left margin of an element.	 
.mr-#	Set the right margin of an element.	 
.mx-#	Set the left and right margin of an element.	 
.my-#	Set the top and bottom margin of an element.	 
.pt-#	Set the top padding of an element.	 
.pb-#	Set the bottom padding of an element.	 
.pl-#	Set the left padding of an element.	 
.pr-#	Set the right padding of an element.	 
.px-#	Set the left and right padding of an element.	 
.py-#	Set the top and bottom padding of an element.	 


Float Classes:::

You can use the float utility classes to quickly float an element to the left or right or remove float from an element altogether. Here's the list of available float classes.

Class		Description	
.float-left		Float an element to the left.	
.float-right		Float an element to the right.	
.float-none		Disable floating from an element.	
.clearfix		Clear floats to prevent parent element from collapsing.	
.float-*-left		Float an element to the left on based on the viewport size.	
.float-*-right	Float an element to the right on based on the viewport size.	
.float-*-none	Disable floating from an element on based on the viewport size.	

Shadow Classes:::


Class		Description	
.shadow		Add a shadow to an element.	
.shadow-sm	Add a small shadow to an element.	
.shadow-lg		Add a larger shadow to an element.	
.shadow-none	Remove shadow from an element.	

Sizing Classes:::

You can use the sizing utility classes to easily make an element as wide or as tall.

Class	Description	
.w-25	Set the width of an element to 25% of its parent element.	 
.w-50	Set the width of an element to 50% of its parent element.	 
.w-75	Set the width of an element to 75% of its parent element.	 
.w-100	Set the width of an element to 100% of its parent element.	 
.w-auto	Set the width of an element to auto, i.e. the browser will calculate and select a width for the specified element.	 
.mw-100	Set the max-width of an element to 100%.	 
.h-25	Set the height of an element to 25% of its parent element.	 
.h-50	Set the height of an element to 50% of its parent element.	 
.h-75	Set the height of an element to 75% of its parent element.	 
.h-100	Set the height of an element to 100% of its parent element.	 
.h-auto	Set the height of an element to auto, i.e. the browser will calculate and select a height for the specified element.	 
.mh-100	Set the max-height of an element to 100%.	 
.vw-100	Set the width of an element to 100% of the width of the viewport.	 
.min-vw-100	Set the min-width of an element to 100% of the width of the viewport.	 
.vh-100	Set the height of an element to 100% of the height of the viewport.	 
.min-vh-100	Set the min-height of an element to 100% of the height of the viewport.	 

Vertical Alignment Classes:::

You can use the vertical alignment utility classes to quickly change the vertical alignment of inline, inline-block, inline-table, and table cell elements.

Class		Description	 
.align-baseline	Align the baseline of the element with the baseline of its parent.	 
.align-top		Align the top of the element with the top of the entire line.	 
.align-middle	Align the element in the middle of the parent element.	 
.align-bottom	Align the bottom of the element with the bottom of the entire line.	 
.align-text-top	Align the top of the element with the top of the parent element's font.	 
.align-text-bottom	Align the bottom of the element with the bottom of the parent element's font.	 

Position Classes:::

You can use the position utility classes to quickly configuring the position of an element.

Class		Description	
.position-static	Set the position of element to static.	
.position-relative	Set the position of element to relative.	
.position-absolute	Set the position of element to absolute.	
.position-fixed	Set the position of element to fixed.	
.position-sticky	Set the position of element to sticky.	
.fixed-top		Position an element at the top of the viewport, from edge to edge.	
.fixed-bottom	Position an element at the bottom of the viewport, from edge to edge.	
.sticky-top		Position an element at the top of the viewport, from edge to edge, but that will only happen after you scroll past it.	

Display Classes:::

You can use the display utility classes to quickly and responsively toggle the display value of an element. You can also control an element's display when printing the page.

Class		Description	  
.d-none		Hide an element. It does not take up any space in the layout.	 
.d-inline		Force an element to generate an inline-level box.	 
.d-inline-block	Force an element to generate a block box that will be flowed with surrounding content i.e. in the same line as adjacent content like 			inline box.	
.d-block		Force an element to generate a block-level box.	 
.d-table		Force an element to behave like a <table> element.	 
.d-table-row	Force an element to behave like a <tr> element.	 
.d-table-cell	Force an element to behave like a <td> element.	 
.d-flex		Force an element to generate a block-level flex container box.	 
.d-inline-flex	Force an element to generate an inline-level flex container box.	 

You can also use the responsive breakpoints (sm, md, lg, and xl.) with these display utility classes to show or hide elements depending on viewport width using the format .d-{breakpoint}-{value}, for example, .d-sm-none, .d-md-block, .d-xl-block, and so on.


Miscellaneous Classes

Class		Description	 
.close		Create generic close icon for dismissing content like modals and alerts.	 
.overflow-auto	Provide scrollbars to view overflowed content of an element if required.	 
.overflow-hidden	Hide overflowed content of an element.	 
.stretched-link	Make an element clickable by stretching a nested link.	 
.visible		Make an element visible, without modifying the display.	 
.invisible		Make an element invisible, but it still take up space in the page.	 
.sr-only		Hide an element to all devices except screen readers.	 
.text-hide		Replace an element's text content with a background image.	 
   